# CT1

###  malloc vs new operator
[gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/malloc-vs-new/)

Constructor call : new calls constructor where as malloc does not
Operator vs Function : new is a operator but malloc is a function
Return type : new returns exact data type while malloc returns null
Failure : on failure, malloc returns null and new returns bad_alloc exception
Buffer size : in malloc buffer size  can be changed by using 'realloc'
but in new buffer size cannot be changed
Memory : in new memory is allocated from free store, in malloc memory is allocated from heap
Size : in new size of the memory is calculated by the compiler, in malloc size of memory has to be calculated by the programmer

### Difference between call by address and call by reference 
[ref](https://pencilprogrammer.com/cpp-tutorials/call-by-value-reference-address/)

Actual parameters are the parameters that appear in the function call statement 
Formal parameter are the parameters that appear in the declaration of the function of the function which has been called

Call by Value :
Value of the Actual parameters are copied into the Formal parameters. Both have their own copies of values Any change in one of the parameters is one reflected by the other. The two parameters point to different memory locations

Call by Reference
Both Actual parameters and Formal parameters share the same value, point to the same memory addresses and any change in one of them is reflected by the other

Call by Address 
Both parameters indirectly share the same value
Pointer variables are used as formal parameters
Formal pointer holds the address of the actual para

Formal pointer variable holds the address of the actual parameter. Hence, changes made by the formal parameter is reflected by the actual parameter




"A constant member function can only read the member variables of a class in which it is defined"
They are denied the permission to change the values of the data members of their own classs
An object declared as "const" cannot be modified and so can invoke only 'const' member functions



which oops does data abstraction violate

### Friend functions

* Encapsulation : lessens the value of encapsulation
* Data Abstraction : have access to private members of a particular class which violates the concept of data hiding (data abstraction) 
* Run-time polymorphism : cannot do run time polymorphism on its own members 
* Not Mutual : Friendship is not mutual. If class A is a friend of class B, then class B does not become a friend of class A automatically.




### Compile time polymorphism vs run time polymorphism



|| Compile time polymorphism |  Run time polymorphism |
|-|---|---|
|Time| Binding occurs at the compile time | at run time we get to know which method to invoke |
|Binding| can be achieved through static binding | can be achieved through dynamic binding |
|Inheritance| Inheritance is not involved | Inheritance is involved |
|Example| Method overloading is a example of compile time polymorphism | Method overriding is a example of run time polymorphism |

### Types of Inheritance
[Types of Inheritance](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/inheritance-in-c/)


1. Single Inheritance : One base class, one subclass

2. Multiple Inheritance : Multiple base classes , one subclass 

3. Multilevel Inheritance : Derived class is created from another derived class

4. Hierarchical Inheritance

5. Hybrid Inheritance



### Need of declaring of virtual destructors?
### How can we declare pure virtual destructors?
[Virtual Destructor](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/why-do-we-need-virtual-destructors-joydip-kanjilal/)

Constructor cannot be virtual because when the constructor invoked a virtual table would not be availale in the memory. So, constructors cannot be overriden

Whenever a program has virtual function declared a virtual table is constructed for the class,
the v-table contains the base addresses of all the virtual functions.
an object of a class with virtual functions declared has a virtual pointer which points to the base address of the virtual table


Whenever there is virtual function call , the v-table is used to resolve the function call. This is exactly what happens at run time when a virtual function is invoked. This is why this binding is called late binding.

Say, there is a Base class and a Derived class
We create an instance of the derived class.
Constructors would be invoked in the order of inheritance and the Destructors would be invoked in the reverse order of inheritance.

When the object goes out of scope or the delete function is called. However, say there is a Base class pointer and we use it to store the address of a derived class instance. When the delete operator is used to delete the pointer object, the Base class destructor would be invoked but the Derived class destructor would simply be ignored. Because the delete operator will see the type of pointer and not the context in which it was used. This might cause a memory leak as instance of the derived class would remain in memory even after the pointer instance is destroyed. To avoid such memory leaks , virtual destructors are used.



### Pure Virtual Function vs Pure Virtual destructor

